Sugar Snap Pea and Carrot Soba Noodles

INGREDIENTS
Soba
6 ounces soba noodles or spaghetti noodles of choice
2 cups frozen organic edamame
10 ounces (about 3 cups) sugar snap peas or snow peas
6 medium-sized carrots, peeled
½ cup chopped fresh cilantro (about 2 handfuls)
¼ cup sesame seeds
Ginger-sesame sauce
¼ cup reduced-sodium tamari or soy sauce
2 tablespoons quality peanut oil or extra-virgin olive oil
1 small lime, juiced
1 tablespoon toasted sesame oil
1 tablespoon honey or agave nectar
1 tablespoon white miso*
2 teaspoons freshly grated ginger
1 teaspoon chili garlic sauce or sriracha

INSTRUCTIONS
To prepare the vegetables: Use a chef’s knife to slice the peas in half lengthwise (or just roughly chop them). Slice the carrots into long, thin strips with a julienne peeler, or slice them into ribbons with a vegetable peeler.
To make the sauce: whisk together the ingredients in a small bowl until emulsified. Set aside.
Bring two big pots of water to a boil. In the meantime, toast the sesame seeds: Pour the sesame seeds into a small pan. Toast for about 4 to 5 minutes over medium-low heat, shaking the pan frequently to prevent burning, until the seeds are turning golden and starting to make popping noises.
Once the pots of water are boiling: In one pot, cook the soba noodles just until al dente, according to package directions (probably about 5 minutes), then drain and briefly rinse under cool water. Cook the frozen edamame in the other pot until warmed through (about 4 to 6 minutes) but before draining, toss the halved peas into the boiling edamame water and cook for an additional 20 seconds. Drain.
Combine the soba noodles, edamame, snap peas and carrots in a large serving bowl. Pour in the dressing and toss with salad servers. Toss in the chopped cilantro and toasted sesame seeds. Serve.
NOTES
*I used Miso Master brand’s reduced-sodium sweet white miso. It’s in the refrigerated section near the tofu. Omit if you can’t find it, but it provides a nice boost of flavor.
MAKE IT VEGAN: Sub agave nectar for the honey.
MAKE IT GLUTEN FREE: Buy certified gluten-free, all buckwheat soba noodles (or gluten-free spaghetti) and use tamari instead of regular soy sauce. Make sure your miso is gluten free, if using.
STORAGE SUGGESTIONS: This dish keeps decently well, covered and refrigerated, for a couple of days, BUT here’s a better way, courtesy of Janet: make a batch, store the salad and dressing separately until ready to eat, and then grab one or two portions and add some dressing. Either way, you can serve leftovers chilled or gently rewarmed. Wake up leftovers with a dash of additional tamari or lime juice and fresh cilantro leaves.
CHANGE IT UP: Feel free to substitute other seasonal produce for the sugar snap peas, or skip them altogether for less prep work. Chopped, raw bell pepper would be a nice addition this summer.
RECOMMENDED EQUIPMENT: This julienne peeler is a fun tool that turns carrots (and zucchini and cucumbers) into thin vegetable noodles.
IF YOU LOVE THIS RECIPE: I have more soba noodle recipes over here!

NAME
Creamy (vegan!) Butternut Squash Linguine with Fried Sage

INGREDIENTS
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 tablespoon finely chopped fresh sage
2 pound butternut or kabocha squash, peeled, seeded, and cut into small ½-inch pieces (about 3 cups)
1 medium yellow onion, chopped
2 garlic cloves, pressed or chopped
⅛ teaspoon red pepper flakes (up to ¼ teaspoon for spicier pasta sauce)
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
2 cups vegetable broth
12 ounces whole grain linguine or fettucine
Optional additional garnishes: shaved Parmesan or Pecorino and/or smoked salt

INSTRUCTIONS
Warm the oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Once the oil is shimmering, add the sage and toss to coat. Let the sage get crispy before transferring it to a small bowl. Sprinkle it lightly with salt and set the bowl aside.
Add the squash, onion, garlic and red pepper flakes to the skillet. Season with salt and pepper. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the onion is translucent, about 8 to 10 minutes. Add the broth. Bring the mixture to a boil, then reduce the heat and simmer until the squash is soft and the liquid is reduced by half, about 15 to 20 minutes.
In the meantime, bring a large pot of salted water to a boil and cook the pasta until al dente according to package directions, stirring occasionally. Reserve 1 cup of the pasta cooking water before draining.
Once the squash mixture is done cooking, remove it from the heat and let it cool slightly. Transfer the contents of the pan to a blender, but keep the skillet handy. Purée the mixture until smooth (beware of hot steam escaping from the top of the blender), then season with salt and pepper until the flavors sing.
In the reserved skillet, combine the pasta, squash purée and ¼ cup cooking liquid. Cook over medium heat, tossing and adding more pasta cooking water as needed, until the sauce coats the pasta, about 2 minutes. Season with more salt and pepper if necessary.
Serve the pasta in individual bowls topped with fried sage, more black pepper and shaved Parmesan/Pecorino and/or smoked salt, if desired.